ADMIN_SETUP.md, before:

# Admin Section Setup Guide

## Overview

The admin section provides:
- **User Management**: View all users, their activity, and manage user roles
- **Database Backup**: Create zipped backups of the entire database
- **Database Restore**: Restore the database from a backup file
- **Scheduled Backups**: Automated backups uploaded to SharePoint

## Initial Setup

### 1. Update Database Schema

After adding the `role` field to the User model, run:

```bash
npm run db:push
```

This will add the `role` field to your database. All existing users will default to `role: "user"`.

### 2. Set First User as Admin

You need to manually set at least one user as admin. You can do this in several ways:

#### Option A: Using Prisma Studio (Recommended)

```bash
npm run db:studio
```

1. Open Prisma Studio (usually at http://localhost:5555)
2. Navigate to the `User` model
3. Find your user account
4. Click to edit
5. Change `role` from `"user"` to `"admin"`
6. Save

#### Option B: Using SQL

If you have direct database access:

```sql
UPDATE "User" SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';
```

#### Option C: Using a Script

Create a temporary script `scripts/set-admin.ts`:

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

async function main() {
  const email = process.argv[2]
  if (!email) {
    console.error('Usage: tsx scripts/set-admin.ts <email>')
    process.exit(1)
  }

  const user = await prisma.user.update({
    where: { email },
    data: { role: 'admin' },
  })

  console.log(`User ${user.email} is now an admin`)
}

main()
  .catch(console.error)
  .finally(() => prisma.$disconnect())
```

Then run:
```bash
tsx scripts/set-admin.ts your-email@example.com
```

## Accessing the Admin Section

Once you have admin privileges:

1. Log in to the application
2. You'll see an "Admin" link in the sidebar (shield icon)
3. Click it to access the admin dashboard

## Features

### User Management

- View all users and their activity counts
- Change user roles (user ↔ admin)
- Filter activity by specific user
- View user provider (email/Microsoft SSO)

### Database Backup

1. Click "Create Backup" to download a zipped backup
2. Optionally check "Upload to SharePoint" to also upload to SharePoint
3. The backup includes:
   - Complete database export as JSON (`backup-data.json`)
   - Metadata with record counts
   - All data from all tables (users, projects, milestones, files, etc.)

### Database Restore

1. Click "Restore Backup"
2. Select a `.zip` backup file
3. Confirm the restore (this will replace the current database)
4. **Important**: Restart the server after restoring

### Scheduled Backups

Scheduled backups are built into the application and can be configured directly from the Admin page. The system uses `node-cron` to automatically create backups and upload them to SharePoint.

#### Setup Scheduled Backups

1. **Add Environment Variable**

   Add to your `.env` file:
   ```env
   ADMIN_BACKUP_SECRET="your-secret-key-here"
   ```

   Generate a secure secret:
   ```bash
   openssl rand -base64 32
   ```

2. **Configure Schedule in Admin Page**

   - Navigate to the Admin page
   - Go to the "Scheduled Backups" section
   - Enable scheduled backups
   - Select frequency (10min, 30min, hourly, daily, weekly)
   - Optionally set a start time
   - Click "Save Schedule"

   The scheduler will automatically start when the server starts and will run backups according to your schedule.

3. **Requirements for Scheduled Backups**

   - At least one admin user must have Microsoft SSO enabled
   - The admin user must have a valid `accessToken`
   - SharePoint must be configured (see `MICROSOFT_SSO_SETUP.md`)
   - `ADMIN_BACKUP_SECRET` must be set in environment variables

#### Viewing Scheduled Backups

- The "Latest Successful Backups" section shows the 3 most recent backups (both manual and scheduled)
- Each backup shows the file name, size, creation date, and a download link
- Backups are automatically uploaded to SharePoint in the `/Backups/` folder

## Security Notes

- Only users with `role: "admin"` can access admin routes
- The last admin cannot be demoted to user
- Scheduled backups require a secret token for security
- Database restore creates a backup before restoring (saved as `.pre-restore-{timestamp}`)

## Troubleshooting

### "Forbidden - Admin access required"

- Make sure your user has `role: "admin"` in the database
- Check that you're logged in
- Try logging out and back in

### Backup/Restore Issues

- Ensure the database file path is correct in `DATABASE_URL`
- For restore, make sure the backup file is a valid zip with `database.db` inside
- Restart the server after restoring

### Scheduled Backup Not Working

- Verify `ADMIN_BACKUP_SECRET` is set correctly
- Check that an admin user has Microsoft SSO enabled
- Verify SharePoint permissions are granted
- Check server logs for errors

Commit message:

Implement admin user initialization from environment variable and update documentation. Add new API route for manual admin setup and enhance backup scheduler to auto-initialize admin on server startup. Update README and setup files to reflect changes in admin user configuration.

ADMIN_SETUP.md, after:

# Admin Section Setup Guide

## Overview

The admin section provides:
- **User Management**: View all users, their activity, and manage user roles
- **Database Backup**: Create zipped backups of the entire database
- **Database Restore**: Restore the database from a backup file
- **Scheduled Backups**: Automated backups uploaded to SharePoint

## Initial Setup

### 1. Update Database Schema

After adding the `role` field to the User model, run:

```bash
npm run db:push
```

This will add the `role` field to your database. All existing users will default to `role: "user"`.

### 2. Set First User as Admin

**Recommended Method: Using Environment Variable**

1. Create a user account by signing up through the application
2. Add to your `.env` file:
   ```env
   INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL="your-email@example.com"
   ```
3. The user will automatically be set as admin when:
   - The server starts (automatic initialization)
   - You run `npm run db:seed`
   - You call the `/api/admin/init-admin` endpoint

**Alternative Methods:**

If you prefer not to use the environment variable, you can set the admin manually:

#### Option A: Using Environment Variable (Recommended)

1. Create a user account by signing up
2. Add `INITIAL_ADMIN_EMAIL="your-email@example.com"` to your `.env` file
3. Restart the server or run `npm run db:seed`
4. The user will automatically be set as admin

#### Option B: Using Prisma Studio

```bash
npm run db:studio
```

1. Open Prisma Studio (usually at http://localhost:5555)
2. Navigate to the `User` model
3. Find your user account
4. Click to edit
5. Change `role` from `"user"` to `"admin"`
6. Save

#### Option C: Using SQL

If you have direct database access:

```sql
UPDATE "User" SET role = 'admin' WHERE email = 'your-email@example.com';
```

#### Option D: Using a Script

Create a temporary script `scripts/set-admin.ts`:

```typescript
import { PrismaClient } from '@prisma/client'

const prisma = new PrismaClient()

async function main() {
  const email = process.argv[2]
  if (!email) {
    console.error('Usage: tsx scripts/set-admin.ts <email>')
    process.exit(1)
  }

  const user = await prisma.user.update({
    where: { email },
    data: { role: 'admin' },
  })

  console.log(`User ${user.email} is now an admin`)
}

main()
  .catch(console.error)
  .finally(() => prisma.$disconnect())
```

Then run:
```bash
tsx scripts/set-admin.ts your-email@example.com
```

## Accessing the Admin Section

Once you have admin privileges:

1. Log in to the application
2. You'll see an "Admin" link in the sidebar (shield icon)
3. Click it to access the admin dashboard

## Features

### User Management

- View all users and their activity counts
- Change user roles (user ↔ admin)
- Filter activity by specific user
- View user provider (email/Microsoft SSO)

### Database Backup

1. Click "Create Backup" to download a zipped backup
2. Optionally check "Upload to SharePoint" to also upload to SharePoint
3. The backup includes:
   - Complete database export as JSON (`backup-data.json`)
   - Metadata with record counts
   - All data from all tables (users, projects, milestones, files, etc.)

### Database Restore

1. Click "Restore Backup"
2. Select a `.zip` backup file
3. Confirm the restore (this will replace the current database)
4. **Important**: Restart the server after restoring

### Scheduled Backups

Scheduled backups are built into the application and can be configured directly from the Admin page. The system uses `node-cron` to automatically create backups and upload them to SharePoint.

#### Setup Scheduled Backups

1. **Add Environment Variable**

   Add to your `.env` file:
   ```env
   ADMIN_BACKUP_SECRET="your-secret-key-here"
   ```

   Generate a secure secret:
   ```bash
   openssl rand -base64 32
   ```

2. **Configure Schedule in Admin Page**

   - Navigate to the Admin page
   - Go to the "Scheduled Backups" section
   - Enable scheduled backups
   - Select frequency (10min, 30min, hourly, daily, weekly)
   - Optionally set a start time
   - Click "Save Schedule"

   The scheduler will automatically start when the server starts and will run backups according to your schedule.

3. **Requirements for Scheduled Backups**

   - At least one admin user must have Microsoft SSO enabled
   - The admin user must have a valid `accessToken`
   - SharePoint must be configured (see `MICROSOFT_SSO_SETUP.md`)
   - `ADMIN_BACKUP_SECRET` must be set in environment variables

#### Viewing Scheduled Backups

- The "Latest Successful Backups" section shows the 3 most recent backups (both manual and scheduled)
- Each backup shows the file name, size, creation date, and a download link
- Backups are automatically uploaded to SharePoint in the `/Backups/` folder

## Security Notes

- Only users with `role: "admin"` can access admin routes
- The last admin cannot be demoted to user
- Scheduled backups require a secret token for security
- Database restore creates a backup before restoring (saved as `.pre-restore-{timestamp}`)

## Troubleshooting

### "Forbidden - Admin access required"

- Make sure your user has `role: "admin"` in the database
- Check that you're logged in
- Try logging out and back in

### Backup/Restore Issues

- Ensure the database file path is correct in `DATABASE_URL`
- For restore, make sure the backup file is a valid zip with `database.db` inside
- Restart the server after restoring

### Scheduled Backup Not Working

- Verify `ADMIN_BACKUP_SECRET` is set correctly
- Check that an admin user has Microsoft SSO enabled
- Verify SharePoint permissions are granted
- Check server logs for errors
